Chapter 1 Introduction to Control Systems
Black reports [8]:
Then came the m orning of Tuesday, August 2, 1927, when the concept of the negati ve
feedback ampli fier came to me in a flash while I was crossing the Hudson River OIl the
Lackawanna Ferry, 0 11 my way to work. For more than 50 years T have pondered how
and why the idea came, and I can't say any more today th an 1 could that morning. All I
know is that after several years of hard work on the problem, r suddenly realized that if
I fed the amplifier output back to the input, in reverSe phase, and kepI the device from
oscillating (s inging. as we called it the n), I would have exactly what I wanted: a means
of canceling out the distortion in the output. I opened my morning newspaper and on a
page of The New York Tim es I sketched a simple canonical diagram of a negative feedback
ampli fier plus the equations for the amplification with feedback. I signed the
sketch, and 20 mi nutes la ter. when I reached the laboratory at 463 West Street, it was
wi tn essed, understood, and signed by the late Earl C. Blessing.
I envisioned this circuit as leading to extremely linear amplifie rs (40 to 50 dB of
negative feedback ), but an important question is: How did I know I could avoid se lfoscillations
over v ery wide frequency bands when many people doubted such circuits
would be stable? My confidence stemmed from work that r had dOlle two years earl ier
on certain novel oscillator circuits and three years earlier in designing the terminal circuits,
including the fi lters, and developing the mathematics for a carrier telephone system
for short toll circu its.
The frequency domain was used primarily to describe the operation of the feedback
amplifiers in terms of bandwidth and other frequ ency variables. In contrast,
the eminent mathematicians and applied mechanicians in the former Soviet Union
inspired and dominated the field of control theory. 'TIl erefore, the Russian theory
tended to utilize a time-domain formulation using differential equations.
The control of an industrial process (manufacturing, production, and so on) by
automatic rather than manual means is often called automation. Automation is
prevalent in the che mical, electric power, paper, automobile, and steel industries,
among others. The concept of automation is central lO our industrial society. Automatic
machines are u sed to increase the production of a plant per worker in order to
offset rising wages and inflationa ry costs. Thus industries are concerned with the
productivity per worker of their plants. Productivity is defined as the ratio of physical
output to physical input [26]. In this case, we are referring to labor productivity,
which is real output per hour of work.
The transformation of the U.S. labor force in the country's brief history follows
the progressive mechanization of work that attended the evolution of the agrarian
republic into an ind u strial world power. In 1820, more than 70 percent of the labor
force worked on the farm. By 1900, less than 40 percent were engaged in agriculture.
Today, less than 5 percent works in agriculture [15].
In 1925, some 5 88,000 people-about 1.3 percent of the nation's labor forcewere
needed to mille 520 million tons of bituminous coal and lignite, almost all of it
from underground. By 1980, production was up to 774 million tons, but the work
force had been reduced to 208,000. Furthermore, only 136,000 of tha t number were
employed in underground mining operations. The highly mechanized and highly
productive surface mines, with just 72,000 workers, produced 482 million tons, or 62
percent of the total [27].
A large impetus to the theory and practice of automatic control occurred during
World War II when it became necessary to design and con struct automatic airplane


a a a a 
 b b b b b b b b 
c c c c c c c 
ddddddd